I love principles because they hold
my true north up higher and tell me how I'm going to get there.
Let's take a look at eight principles from
the book Continuous Delivery by Jess Humble and David Farley.
Repeatable reliable process.
Here we're talking about the process of releasing or deploying our software.
That process should be reliable or worthy of our trust.
It should also be repeatable,
meaning we should be able to release, release,
release and we should be able to get the same results every single time.
Automate everything.
This principle definitely supports the first principle.
I don't know about you,
but I can't do anything two times manually and get the same result.
But if I automate those things,
I can do it thousands of times with exactly the same result.
Therefore, if I want to have repeatable, reliable processes,
I need to automate them.
Version control everything.
Everything to do with your software project,
not just the code should be in version control.
Infrastructure configuration, CICD config,
those are the easy ones.
How about test cases,
acceptance tests, and automated end-to-end tests?
Yes, even those.
Bring the pain forward.
If something is painful or difficult,
do that thing more often so that we force ourselves to improve it?
Build in quality.
Our processes need to be designed to expect quality,
verify the expectation is met through various checks and keep
metrics to alert the team when that expectation starts to drop.
We should be watching metrics that tell the story of
code health, like coverage, complexity,
code smells, code style,
the process should nudge the team to improve those metrics over time.
"Done" means released.
One of the first things I do when I get a new developer is
I train them to stop saying done, so hastily.
In my world and in the world of continuous delivery,
done means released, nothing more to do to get it into production.
This principle drives development teams to share the responsibility to complete features
all the way to production instead of
washing their hands of a feature when it passes their stage.
Everyone is responsible.
Everyone shares the responsibility to keep the product moving to release.
No silos or one man deployment shows,
no more tossing a feature over the wall to QA when
we know full well it's not good enough for real users.
Certainly no more staying silent during
backlog refinement meetings when we know
we haven't fully comprehended what the client wants.
Everything we do needs to contribute to the goal
of releasing and everyone is responsible.
Continuous improvement.
Consider everything in an experiment with
the potential to make the team or process better.
Focus the team's efforts on a true north or common goal.
That way, you can call every step a positive improvement,
just a tiny step in the direction of perfection.
Don't sit around and wait for an improvement to happen by accident,
be intentional with small daily improvements.